app/views/guidance/census_sign_off.md, before:

---
page_title: Signing off your list of trainees for the initial teacher training census
title: Signing off your list of trainees for the initial teacher training census
---

Each year, as an accredited provider, you need to sign off your teacher trainee data in Register.

If you’re in a partnership, you’re responsible for ensuring your lead partners’ trainee data is accurate and signed off by the deadline.

## Why the census sign-off is important

If your teacher trainee data is accurate and signed off by 31 October 2023, it will help you:

* receive the correct amount of funding owed to you
* allocate the correct financial support to your trainees when they start their course, if applicable

Your accurate census data also helps the DfE understand new entrants to teacher training in England for the 2023 to 2024 academic year, and to inform future policy.

If you do not sign off your data by 31 October, your organisation’s data may not be included in the census publication.

## Checking your trainee data in the ‘Reports’ section of Register

Register all your new trainees for the 2023 to 2024 academic year, if you have not done so already. You can find out how to register trainees under the ‘Registering trainees’ section in the guidance.

You can check your trainee data is correct by exporting your trainee records as a CSV file from the Reports section in Register. You should carefully check:

* number of trainees - if you have ‘zero’ or a lower number than you expect, check you’ve registered all your new trainees for the 2023 to 2024 academic year
* courses - this may impact on any grants or bursaries trainees are able to receive
* start date - the correct start date will help trainees receive funding on time, if applicable

## Signing off your trainee data

You will need to complete <a href="https://forms.office.com/e/TB5dcbCJuF" class="govuk-link" rel="noreferrer noopener" target="_blank">this form to sign off the data on behalf of your organisation (opens in new window).</a>

## Before you start

You should:

* allocate time to check the accuracy of your trainee data
* confirm availability of your senior officer to sign off &mdash; do not leave this to the last week in October

## How your trainee data will be used

Read the [Initial Teacher Training census methodology](https://explore-education-statistics.service.gov.uk/methodology/initial-teacher-training-census-methodology) to find out how your trainee data will be used.

## Get help

Email <becomingateacher@digital.education.gov.uk> if you have any questions about signing off your new trainee data.

Commit message:

[8797] Remove HESA instructions from withdrawal guidance (#5530)
* Remove HESA instructions from withdrawal guidance

This paragraph is no longer relevant

* [8796] Update content on census sign-off guidance page (#5531)

* Update content on census sign-off guidance page

The sign-off form is now built into the service and the _Before you
start_ section is now redundant.

* Update _Bulk upload placement data_ guidance page (#5533)

The HESA references are no longer relevant and the dates need to be
generalised.

app/views/guidance/census_sign_off.md, after:

---
page_title: Signing off your list of trainees for the initial teacher training census
title: Signing off your list of trainees for the initial teacher training census
---

Each year, as an accredited provider, you need to sign off your teacher trainee data in Register.

If you’re in a partnership, you’re responsible for ensuring your lead partners’ trainee data is accurate and signed off by the deadline.

## Why the census sign-off is important

If your teacher trainee data is accurate and signed off by 31 October 2023, it will help you:

* receive the correct amount of funding owed to you
* allocate the correct financial support to your trainees when they start their course, if applicable

Your accurate census data also helps the DfE understand new entrants to teacher training in England for the 2023 to 2024 academic year, and to inform future policy.

If you do not sign off your data by 31 October, your organisation’s data may not be included in the census publication.

## Checking your trainee data in the ‘Reports’ section of Register

Register all your new trainees for the 2023 to 2024 academic year, if you have not done so already. You can find out how to register trainees under the ‘Registering trainees’ section in the guidance.

You can check your trainee data is correct by exporting your trainee records as a CSV file from the Reports section in Register. You should carefully check:

* number of trainees - if you have ‘zero’ or a lower number than you expect, check you’ve registered all your new trainees for the 2023 to 2024 academic year
* courses - this may impact on any grants or bursaries trainees are able to receive
* start date - the correct start date will help trainees receive funding on time, if applicable

## Signing off your trainee data

This now takes place within the service. You will be prompted to check the accuracy of all information before completing sign-off.

## How your trainee data will be used

Read the [Initial Teacher Training census methodology](https://explore-education-statistics.service.gov.uk/methodology/initial-teacher-training-census-methodology) to find out how your trainee data will be used.

## Get help

Email <becomingateacher@digital.education.gov.uk> if you have any questions about signing off your new trainee data.
