app/views/guidance/withdraw_defer_reinstate_or_recommend_a_trainee.md, before:

---
page_title: Withdraw, defer, reinstate or recommend a trainee for teaching standards
title: Withdraw, defer, reinstate or recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS
---

You must use Register trainee teachers (Register) to:

- withdraw a trainee from teacher training
- recommend a trainee for qualified teacher status (QTS) or early years teacher status (EYTS)

If you registered a trainee using the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) service, you can use it to defer the trainee or reinstate them when they return to training. Otherwise you must use Register.

## Withdraw a trainee from teacher training

You must withdraw a trainee if they’re no longer training for QTS or EYTS. This includes trainees who have:

- withdrawn from training entirely
- withdrawn from teacher training but will continue to study for another academic qualification
- failed their course (there is no separate status for this in Register)

When you sign into Register, you can withdraw a trainee from within their trainee record.

You cannot withdraw multiple trainees at the same time. You must withdraw them individually so that:

- there’s no confusion about whether a trainee is no longer aiming to get QTS or EYTS or has withdrawn from a course entirely
- you can give more details about why the trainee withdrew, helping the Department for Education (DfE) to understand the reasons for withdrawal


## Defer or reinstate a trainee

When you sign into Register, you can defer or reinstate a trainee from within their trainee record.

You cannot defer or reinstate multiple trainees at the same time in Register. You can do so using the HESA service.

## Recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS

You should recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS as soon as they meet the teaching standards. They’ll need their teaching status certificate to apply for jobs at state schools.

You do not need to record in Register when a trainee got a PGCE or completed an undergraduate course. You just need to record when they met the standards for QTS or EYTS.

You can sign into Register to recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS from within their trainee record. You can also recommend multiple trainees at the same time. Find out [how to bulk recommend trainees for QTS or EYTS](/guidance/bulk-recommend-trainees).

After you recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS, the Teaching Regulation Agency (TRA) will award them with teaching status within 3 working days.

The DfE will later send an email to the trainees to tell them that their certificates are available to download from the Access your Teacher Qualifications service.

Commit message:

[8733] Update guidance for deferring trainees (#5465)
* Update guidance for deferring trainees
* Fix failing test

---------

Co-authored-by: Tom Trentham <tom.trentham@education.gov.uk>

app/views/guidance/withdraw_defer_reinstate_or_recommend_a_trainee.md, after:

---
page_title: Withdraw, defer, reinstate or recommend a trainee for teaching standards
title: Withdraw, defer, reinstate or recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS
---

You must use Register trainee teachers (Register) to:

- withdraw a trainee from teacher training
- recommend a trainee for qualified teacher status (QTS) or early years teacher status (EYTS)

If you registered a trainee using the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) service, you can use it to defer the trainee or reinstate them when they return to training. Otherwise you must use Register.

## Withdraw a trainee from teacher training

You must withdraw a trainee if they’re no longer training for QTS or EYTS. This includes trainees who have:

- withdrawn from training entirely
- withdrawn from teacher training but will continue to study for another academic qualification
- failed their course (there is no separate status for this in Register)

When you sign into Register, you can withdraw a trainee from within their trainee record.

You cannot withdraw multiple trainees at the same time. You must withdraw them individually so that:

- there’s no confusion about whether a trainee is no longer aiming to get QTS or EYTS or has withdrawn from a course entirely
- you can give more details about why the trainee withdrew, helping the Department for Education (DfE) to understand the reasons for withdrawal


## Defer or reinstate a trainee

When you sign into Register, you can defer or reinstate a trainee from within their trainee record.

You can give more detail about why the trainee deferred, helping the Department for Education (DfE) to understand the reasons for deferral.

You cannot defer or reinstate multiple trainees at the same time in Register. You can do so using the Register API if you’re an accredited HEI provider.

## Recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS

You should recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS as soon as they meet the teaching standards. They’ll need their teaching status certificate to apply for jobs at state schools.

You do not need to record in Register when a trainee got a PGCE or completed an undergraduate course. You just need to record when they met the standards for QTS or EYTS.

You can sign into Register to recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS from within their trainee record. You can also recommend multiple trainees at the same time. Find out [how to bulk recommend trainees for QTS or EYTS](/guidance/bulk-recommend-trainees).

After you recommend a trainee for QTS or EYTS, the Teaching Regulation Agency (TRA) will award them with teaching status within 3 working days.

The DfE will later send an email to the trainees to tell them that their certificates are available to download from the Access your Teacher Qualifications service.
