docs/support_playbook.md, before:

# Support Playbook

## Making data changes

If you’re making a data change, you must include an `audit_comment` so that we can see why we did this. For example:

```ruby
trainee.update(date_of_birth: <whatevs>, audit_comment: 'Update from the trainee via DQT')
```

## Changing training route

Sometimes support will ask a dev to update the training route. Here is an example for updating a route to `school_direct_salaried`.

```ruby
trainee = Trainee.find_by(slug: "XXX")
manager = RouteDataManager.new(trainee: trainee)
manager.update_training_route!("school_direct_salaried")
```

A bunch of fields will be set to `nil`, see `RouteDataManager` class. Ask support to communicate with the user to update the Trainee record for the missing information.

`update_training_route!` no longer kicks off an update to DQT so that will need to be done manually if needed.

## Unwithdrawing a withdrawn trainee

Sometimes support will ask a dev to unwithdraw a trainee which has been withdrawn in error. You can find the previous trainee state by running `trainee.audits` and comparing the numbers to the enum in `trainee.rb`.

Here is an example of unwithdrawing a trainee. Note that the audit trail should be left intact.


```ruby
trainee = Trainee.find_by(slug: "XXX")

trainee.withdrawal_reasons.clear
trainee.update_columns(state: "XXX", withdraw_reasons_details: nil, withdraw_reasons_dfe_details: nil, withdraw_date: nil)
```

## Error codes on DQT trainee jobs

Sometimes the different jobs that send trainee info to DQT (such as `Dqt::UpdateTraineeJob`,`Dqt::WithdrawTraineeJob` and `Dqt::RecommendForAwardJob` ) will produce an error. You can view these failed jobs in the Sidekiq UI.

Sometimes a trainee will have both a failed update job, and a failed award job. In this case, make sure to re-run the update job first. If you run the award job first and then try to run the update job, the update will fail as the trainee will already have QTS (and therefore can no longer be updated on DQT’s end).

We have a couple of services you can call which retrieve data about the trainee
in DQT.

If the trainee has a TRN already, call this (where `t` is the trainee):

```ruby
Dqt::RetrieveTeacher.call(trainee: t)
```

If the trainee does not have a TRN yet, call this instead:

```ruby
Dqt::FindTeacher.call(trainee: t)
```

This list is not exhaustive, but here are some common errors types that we see:

### 500 error

This is a cloud server error. You can usually just rerun these jobs and they’ll succeed. If not, speak with DQT about the trainee.

### 404 error

This is triggered when DQT cannot find the trainee on their side.

```json
status: 404, body: {"title":"Teacher with specified TRN not found","status":404,"errorCode":10001}
```

* This can happen when there is a mismatch between the date of birth that Register holds for the trainee vs what DQT holds (we send both TRN and DOB to DQT to match trainees)

* I’ve also seen this error come up when the trainee’s TRN is inactive on the DQT side

Speak with the DQT team to work out if it’s one of the above issues. Align the date of birth on both services and re-run the job.

### 400 error

This error means there is an unprocessable entry. This normally means there is some kind of validation error in the payload which will need to be investigated.

```json
status: 400, body: {"title":"Teacher has no QTS record","status":400,"errorCode":10006}
```

* There might be a trainee state mismatch here between DQT and Register
* We’ve seen this error when a trainee has been withdrawn on DQT and awarded on Register
* We have some known examples of trainees like this so it’s worth checking with our support team to see if there are existing comms about the trainee
* In this case you might need to check with the provider what the state of the record should be

```json
status: 400, body: {"title":"Teacher has no incomplete ITT record","status":400,"errorCode":10005}
```

* If this error came from the award job, then the trainee might be stuck in recommended for award state
* If everything matches on DQT’s side (trainee details, the provider) then you may be able to just award the trainee on Register’s side
* If any doubt then check with the provider
* We’ve also seen this error on the withdraw job - cross-reference with DQT and check with provider if necessary to see what state the trainee should be in

```json
"qualification.providerUkprn":["Organisation not found"]
```

* We send the UKPRN of the trainee’s degree institution to DQT
* This error happens when DQT do not have a matching UKPRN on their end for the trainee’s degree organisation
* Locate the institution_uuid for the failing trainee and look up the UKPRN in the DfE Reference Data gem repo
* Send the UKPRN and degree institution details over to DQT so they can add on their side and re-run the job

```json
{"initialTeacherTraining.programmeType":["Teacher already has QTS/EYTS date"]}
```

* We’ve noticed there is likely a race condition sometimes causing this error
* When we run an award job, an update job is also kicked off
* We think that sometimes the award job succeeds before the update job, which causes this error on the update job
* Cross reference the trainee details on Register with the trainee details on DQT, you can use the DQT API for this - checking the trainee timeline on Register can also be helful

  ```ruby
  Dqt::RetrieveTeacher.call(trainee:)
  ```

* If there are no differences, it is likely a race condition and you can delete the failed update job
* If there are differences, speak to DQT and maybe contact provider to see what needs updating

### Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob for Trainee id: xxx has timed out after 4 days

We see this error on slack when our polling job times out before we receive a
TRN from DQT. The default timeout is four days from the trainee’s
`submitted_for_trn_at` date.

We need to understand from DQT why the TRN is taking a while to assign. Is there
a problem we need to address?

If there is no issue, we can kick off another polling job with a timeout in the
future:

```ruby
Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob.perform_later(t.dqt_trn_request, Date.today + 4.days)
```

### Dqt::TraineeUpdate::TraineeUpdateMissingTrn

This error will be accompanied by the message:

`Cannot update trainee on DQT without a trn (id: 142508)`

This means that we have tried to update a trainee on DQT before we’ve received a
TRN back.

Two issues are possible:

1. The trainee is not present on DQT for some reason (it may have failed
  previously with one of the above errors).

    In this case, we need to re-register them:

    ```ruby
    Dqt::RegisterForTrnJob.perform_later(t)
    ```

    making sure that it succeeds.

    We also need to kick off another polling job, so that we receive the TRN
    when assigned:

    ```ruby
    Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob.perform_later(t.dqt_trn_request, Date.today + 4.days)
    ```

    You will need to set the second argument (timeout) to some point in the
    future if the trainee was submitted for TRN more than 4 days ago.

2. The trainee is present on DQT but we never received the TRN (our polling
  job may have timed out).

    In this case, we need to kick off another polling job, so that we receive
    the TRN:

    ```ruby
    Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob.perform_later(t.dqt_trn_request, Date.today + 4.days)
    ```

## Incorrectly awarded trainee

If a trainee has incorrectly been recommended for award in register this will also impact DQT.

In this scenario we must also contact DQT to fix the trainee award status and update the trainee status in register.

```ruby
trainee = Trainee.find_by(slug: "limax")

trainee.update(state: :trn_received, recommended_for_award_at: nil, awarded_at: nil, outcome_date: nil, audit_comment: 'fill in the blanks')

```

All record changes should be sent to DQT unless otherwise specified or impossible (for example, we cannot send a DOB update). If DQT already has that info (for example, they’re awarded on DQT, and we’re just awarding on Register) we should not send any information.

Register support may need to communicate with the trainee and provider to ensure that they understand the error and the resolution.

## Managing the sidekiq queue

### via the UI

`system-admin/dead_jobs/` uses the methods below to list failed trainees. You can also download the list along with errors via `download (.csv)`.

### Console commands

#### Inspect jobs in a queue

```ruby
dqt_queue = Sidekiq::Queue.new("dqt")
dqt_queue.select { _1.value.include? "122803" } # select jobs containing user id value 122803
```

#### Tally by job type

```ruby
default_queue = Sidekiq::Queue.new("default")
default_queue.map { _1["wrapped"] }.tally
```

#### Dead jobs

```ruby
include Hashable

ds = Sidekiq::DeadSet.new

# unique user ids
ds.map { deep_dig(_1.args[0]["arguments"][0], "_aj_globalid").split("/").last }.uniq.count
# eg count 405 errors
ds.select { _1.item["error_message"].starts_with? "status: 405" }.count
# retry
ds.select { _1.item["error_message"].starts_with? "status: 405" }.map(&:retry)
```

## Settings

Sometimes we need to toggle/change features and settings. This can be done using the `kubectl set env` command. For example:

```sh
# set the ENV, the pods will automatically restart once the process has gone through
kubectl -n bat-production set env deployment/production SETTINGS__FEATURES__SIGN_IN_METHOD=otp
```
This process can take a short while, follow [Verifying settings has been changed](#verifying-settings-has-been-changed)


The format of the ENV you set is important. Double underscores `__` are the equivalent of subsections in `settings.yml` so the above is equivalent to:

```yml
# config/settings.yml

features:
  sign_in_method: otp
```

### Verifying settings has been changed
To check how the process is going. Use `kubectl get pods`. For example:

```sh
# Check that the old pods now have a status showing `Terminating`` and the new ones show `Running``.
kubectl -n bat-production get pods
```

To check that the environment variable has ben set. Use `kubectl describe`

```sh
kubectl -n bat-production describe deployment/register-production
```

### Disable DfE Analytics

Previously `DfE Analytics` caused a exponential spike on system load, leading to the system becoming non-responsive, for a extended period of time, with the initial cause being a few days prior.

By setting the `send_data_to_big_query` to `false` it in turns set DfE Analytics’ `enable_analytics`.

This will disables DfE Analytics.

> A machine restart is required so either via a PR or via terminal `kubectl`.
> This stop all of `DfE Analytics`.

```yml
# config/settings.yml
# config/settings/production.yml
features:
  google:
    send_data_to_big_query: false
```

```sh
# set the ENV, the pods will automatically restart once the process has gone through
kubectl -n bat-production set env deployment/production SETTINGS__FEATURES__GOOGLE__SEND_DATA_TO_BIG_QUERY=false
```

### Removing Duplicate Trainees
The `trainee:remove_duplicates` task is used to remove duplicate trainees from the database based on email address. The task requires a CSV file with trainee IDs as input.

Here’s how to use it:

**Syntax:**

```
rake trainee:remove_duplicates <path_to_csv_file>
```

**Parameters:**

- `path_to_csv_file`: This should be replaced with the path to the CSV file that contains the trainee IDs. The CSV file should contain a header row with an “trainee_id” and an “email” field. See below:

```csv
trainee_id,email
123,duplicate@example.com
456,duplicate@example.com
789,duplicate@example.com
890,unique@example.com
```

**Example:**

Suppose you have a CSV file named `trainees.csv` in the root directory of your project. To run the Rake task, you would use:

```
bundle exec rake trainee:remove_duplicates\[trainees.csv\]
```

This command will:
1. Open the `trainees.csv` file.
2. Run through each row, using the “id” field to find the corresponding trainee in the database.
3. If found, it will find and discard any other trainee that has the same email address.
4. If not found, it will print a message stating that the trainee was not found.
5. Once the task finishes running through all rows in the CSV, it will print “Task completed.”

## Resolving Incorrect `provider_type` on Publish: Ensuring Trainees are Created on Register

**Steps to Take:**
1. **Correct the `provider_type` on Publish**
    - Once the provider type is corrected, the Apply applications will be imported, and new trainees will be created.
2. **Identify the `apply_id` on Register**
    - Retrieve the `apply_id` from the `ApplyApplication` table using the following query:


      ```ruby
      application_choice_ids = ApplyApplication.where(accredited_body_code: "2N2", recruitment_cycle_year: 2024, state: :non_importable_hei).pluck(:apply_id)
      ```

3. **Touch All Relevant `ApplicationChoice` Entries on Apply**

    - Touch the relevant `ApplicationChoice` records so that when Register calls the API endpoint with the `changed_since` parameter it will return the applications again:

      ```ruby
      ApplicationChoice.where(id: application_choice_ids).touch_all
      ```

4. **Delete Related `ApplyApplication` Entries on Register**

    - Remove the associated `ApplyApplication` records from the Register:

      ```ruby
      ApplyApplication.where(apply_id: application_choice_ids).delete_all
      ```

5. **Initiate Sidekiq Jobs on Register**
    - Trigger the following Sidekiq jobs to complete the process:
      - `import_applications_from_apply`
      - `create_trainees_from_apply`

Note: This process will import a fresh copy of the applicants’ details and use them to create new records. This ensures that the system realigns with its normal mode of operation, correcting any issues caused by previously imported, potentially stale data.

## Lead partners
### Converting a provider into lead partner

If a provider loses accreditation and needs to be converted into a lead partner, do the following

- Find the ids of all providers that need to be converted
- run the following task including the apostrophes

```
bundle exec rails 'copy_providers_to_lead_partners:copy[<provider ids separated by spaces>, <provider type, eg hei or scitt>]'
```

This task should create the new lead partner and associate the providers’ users with the new lead partner record.


### Creating a lead partner from a school
Ensure that the schools data are up to date see docs/setup-development.md

There is UI that the support agent that can use, so no need for a dev.


1. Find the school in question, https://www.register-trainee-teachers.service.gov.uk/system-admin/schools
2. Change `Is a lead partner? ` from `No` to `Yes`
3. Confirm it
4. Verify it, https://www.register-trainee-teachers.service.gov.uk/system-admin/lead-partners

### Adding a previous trainee for a former accredited provider


Given a lead partner and the former accredited provider is the same.
```ruby

lead_partner = LeadPartner.find(1363)

lead_partner.name == lead_partner.provider.name && lead_partner.provider.accredited? == false

trainee = Trainee.new(provider: lead_partner.provider, state: :draft)
```

Create a `draft` trainee for `lead_partner.provider` and ask the support agent to liaise with the provider to ensure that the details are correct, and the dates are correct.

May need overseeing from `draft` to `awarded`.

Commit message:

[8229] Add audits to trainee withdrawals (#5095)
* Refactor Trainee#current_withdrawal

* Add audited to TraineeWithdrawal

* Refactor factory

* Avoid creating a duplicate trainee_withdrawal record

* Update support playbook

* Lint

* Update docs/support_playbook.md

Co-authored-by: Steve Hook <steve.hook@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Steve Hook <steve.hook@gmail.com>

docs/support_playbook.md, after:

# Support Playbook

## Making data changes

If you’re making a data change, you must include an `audit_comment` so that we can see why we did this. For example:

```ruby
trainee.update(date_of_birth: <whatevs>, audit_comment: 'Update from the trainee via DQT')
```

## Changing training route

Sometimes support will ask a dev to update the training route. Here is an example for updating a route to `school_direct_salaried`.

```ruby
trainee = Trainee.find_by(slug: "XXX")
manager = RouteDataManager.new(trainee: trainee)
manager.update_training_route!("school_direct_salaried")
```

A bunch of fields will be set to `nil`, see `RouteDataManager` class. Ask support to communicate with the user to update the Trainee record for the missing information.

`update_training_route!` no longer kicks off an update to DQT so that will need to be done manually if needed.



## Changing the withdrawal date for a withdrawn trainee

Sometimes support will ask a dev to change the withdrawal date for a trainee.


```ruby
trainee = Trainee.find_by(slug: "XXX")
trainee.current_withdrawal.update!(date: Date.new(2024, 3, 3), audit_comment: "Reason for changing the date")
```

## Unwithdrawing a withdrawn trainee

Sometimes support will ask a dev to unwithdraw a trainee which has been withdrawn in error. When logged in as a system admin the trainee's withdrawal can be reverted by clicking on `Undo withdrawal` at the `Withdrawal details` section in the trainee show page `/trainees/:slug`

## Error codes on DQT trainee jobs

Sometimes the different jobs that send trainee info to DQT (such as `Dqt::UpdateTraineeJob`,`Dqt::WithdrawTraineeJob` and `Dqt::RecommendForAwardJob` ) will produce an error. You can view these failed jobs in the Sidekiq UI.

Sometimes a trainee will have both a failed update job, and a failed award job. In this case, make sure to re-run the update job first. If you run the award job first and then try to run the update job, the update will fail as the trainee will already have QTS (and therefore can no longer be updated on DQT’s end).

We have a couple of services you can call which retrieve data about the trainee
in DQT.

If the trainee has a TRN already, call this (where `t` is the trainee):

```ruby
Dqt::RetrieveTeacher.call(trainee: t)
```

If the trainee does not have a TRN yet, call this instead:

```ruby
Dqt::FindTeacher.call(trainee: t)
```

This list is not exhaustive, but here are some common errors types that we see:

### 500 error

This is a cloud server error. You can usually just rerun these jobs and they’ll succeed. If not, speak with DQT about the trainee.

### 404 error

This is triggered when DQT cannot find the trainee on their side.

```json
status: 404, body: {"title":"Teacher with specified TRN not found","status":404,"errorCode":10001}
```

* This can happen when there is a mismatch between the date of birth that Register holds for the trainee vs what DQT holds (we send both TRN and DOB to DQT to match trainees)

* I’ve also seen this error come up when the trainee’s TRN is inactive on the DQT side

Speak with the DQT team to work out if it’s one of the above issues. Align the date of birth on both services and re-run the job.

### 400 error

This error means there is an unprocessable entry. This normally means there is some kind of validation error in the payload which will need to be investigated.

```json
status: 400, body: {"title":"Teacher has no QTS record","status":400,"errorCode":10006}
```

* There might be a trainee state mismatch here between DQT and Register
* We’ve seen this error when a trainee has been withdrawn on DQT and awarded on Register
* We have some known examples of trainees like this so it’s worth checking with our support team to see if there are existing comms about the trainee
* In this case you might need to check with the provider what the state of the record should be

```json
status: 400, body: {"title":"Teacher has no incomplete ITT record","status":400,"errorCode":10005}
```

* If this error came from the award job, then the trainee might be stuck in recommended for award state
* If everything matches on DQT’s side (trainee details, the provider) then you may be able to just award the trainee on Register’s side
* If any doubt then check with the provider
* We’ve also seen this error on the withdraw job - cross-reference with DQT and check with provider if necessary to see what state the trainee should be in

```json
"qualification.providerUkprn":["Organisation not found"]
```

* We send the UKPRN of the trainee’s degree institution to DQT
* This error happens when DQT do not have a matching UKPRN on their end for the trainee’s degree organisation
* Locate the institution_uuid for the failing trainee and look up the UKPRN in the DfE Reference Data gem repo
* Send the UKPRN and degree institution details over to DQT so they can add on their side and re-run the job

```json
{"initialTeacherTraining.programmeType":["Teacher already has QTS/EYTS date"]}
```

* We’ve noticed there is likely a race condition sometimes causing this error
* When we run an award job, an update job is also kicked off
* We think that sometimes the award job succeeds before the update job, which causes this error on the update job
* Cross reference the trainee details on Register with the trainee details on DQT, you can use the DQT API for this - checking the trainee timeline on Register can also be helful

  ```ruby
  Dqt::RetrieveTeacher.call(trainee:)
  ```

* If there are no differences, it is likely a race condition and you can delete the failed update job
* If there are differences, speak to DQT and maybe contact provider to see what needs updating

### Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob for Trainee id: xxx has timed out after 4 days

We see this error on slack when our polling job times out before we receive a
TRN from DQT. The default timeout is four days from the trainee’s
`submitted_for_trn_at` date.

We need to understand from DQT why the TRN is taking a while to assign. Is there
a problem we need to address?

If there is no issue, we can kick off another polling job with a timeout in the
future:

```ruby
Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob.perform_later(t.dqt_trn_request, Date.today + 4.days)
```

### Dqt::TraineeUpdate::TraineeUpdateMissingTrn

This error will be accompanied by the message:

`Cannot update trainee on DQT without a trn (id: 142508)`

This means that we have tried to update a trainee on DQT before we’ve received a
TRN back.

Two issues are possible:

1. The trainee is not present on DQT for some reason (it may have failed
  previously with one of the above errors).

    In this case, we need to re-register them:

    ```ruby
    Dqt::RegisterForTrnJob.perform_later(t)
    ```

    making sure that it succeeds.

    We also need to kick off another polling job, so that we receive the TRN
    when assigned:

    ```ruby
    Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob.perform_later(t.dqt_trn_request, Date.today + 4.days)
    ```

    You will need to set the second argument (timeout) to some point in the
    future if the trainee was submitted for TRN more than 4 days ago.

2. The trainee is present on DQT but we never received the TRN (our polling
  job may have timed out).

    In this case, we need to kick off another polling job, so that we receive
    the TRN:

    ```ruby
    Dqt::RetrieveTrnJob.perform_later(t.dqt_trn_request, Date.today + 4.days)
    ```

## Incorrectly awarded trainee

If a trainee has incorrectly been recommended for award in register this will also impact DQT.

In this scenario we must also contact DQT to fix the trainee award status and update the trainee status in register.

```ruby
trainee = Trainee.find_by(slug: "limax")

trainee.update(state: :trn_received, recommended_for_award_at: nil, awarded_at: nil, outcome_date: nil, audit_comment: 'fill in the blanks')

```

All record changes should be sent to DQT unless otherwise specified or impossible (for example, we cannot send a DOB update). If DQT already has that info (for example, they’re awarded on DQT, and we’re just awarding on Register) we should not send any information.

Register support may need to communicate with the trainee and provider to ensure that they understand the error and the resolution.

## Managing the sidekiq queue

### via the UI

`system-admin/dead_jobs/` uses the methods below to list failed trainees. You can also download the list along with errors via `download (.csv)`.

### Console commands

#### Inspect jobs in a queue

```ruby
dqt_queue = Sidekiq::Queue.new("dqt")
dqt_queue.select { _1.value.include? "122803" } # select jobs containing user id value 122803
```

#### Tally by job type

```ruby
default_queue = Sidekiq::Queue.new("default")
default_queue.map { _1["wrapped"] }.tally
```

#### Dead jobs

```ruby
include Hashable

ds = Sidekiq::DeadSet.new

# unique user ids
ds.map { deep_dig(_1.args[0]["arguments"][0], "_aj_globalid").split("/").last }.uniq.count
# eg count 405 errors
ds.select { _1.item["error_message"].starts_with? "status: 405" }.count
# retry
ds.select { _1.item["error_message"].starts_with? "status: 405" }.map(&:retry)
```

## Settings

Sometimes we need to toggle/change features and settings. This can be done using the `kubectl set env` command. For example:

```sh
# set the ENV, the pods will automatically restart once the process has gone through
kubectl -n bat-production set env deployment/production SETTINGS__FEATURES__SIGN_IN_METHOD=otp
```
This process can take a short while, follow [Verifying settings has been changed](#verifying-settings-has-been-changed)


The format of the ENV you set is important. Double underscores `__` are the equivalent of subsections in `settings.yml` so the above is equivalent to:

```yml
# config/settings.yml

features:
  sign_in_method: otp
```

### Verifying settings has been changed
To check how the process is going. Use `kubectl get pods`. For example:

```sh
# Check that the old pods now have a status showing `Terminating`` and the new ones show `Running``.
kubectl -n bat-production get pods
```

To check that the environment variable has ben set. Use `kubectl describe`

```sh
kubectl -n bat-production describe deployment/register-production
```

### Disable DfE Analytics

Previously `DfE Analytics` caused a exponential spike on system load, leading to the system becoming non-responsive, for a extended period of time, with the initial cause being a few days prior.

By setting the `send_data_to_big_query` to `false` it in turns set DfE Analytics’ `enable_analytics`.

This will disables DfE Analytics.

> A machine restart is required so either via a PR or via terminal `kubectl`.
> This stop all of `DfE Analytics`.

```yml
# config/settings.yml
# config/settings/production.yml
features:
  google:
    send_data_to_big_query: false
```

```sh
# set the ENV, the pods will automatically restart once the process has gone through
kubectl -n bat-production set env deployment/production SETTINGS__FEATURES__GOOGLE__SEND_DATA_TO_BIG_QUERY=false
```

### Removing Duplicate Trainees
The `trainee:remove_duplicates` task is used to remove duplicate trainees from the database based on email address. The task requires a CSV file with trainee IDs as input.

Here’s how to use it:

**Syntax:**

```
rake trainee:remove_duplicates <path_to_csv_file>
```

**Parameters:**

- `path_to_csv_file`: This should be replaced with the path to the CSV file that contains the trainee IDs. The CSV file should contain a header row with an “trainee_id” and an “email” field. See below:

```csv
trainee_id,email
123,duplicate@example.com
456,duplicate@example.com
789,duplicate@example.com
890,unique@example.com
```

**Example:**

Suppose you have a CSV file named `trainees.csv` in the root directory of your project. To run the Rake task, you would use:

```
bundle exec rake trainee:remove_duplicates\[trainees.csv\]
```

This command will:
1. Open the `trainees.csv` file.
2. Run through each row, using the “id” field to find the corresponding trainee in the database.
3. If found, it will find and discard any other trainee that has the same email address.
4. If not found, it will print a message stating that the trainee was not found.
5. Once the task finishes running through all rows in the CSV, it will print “Task completed.”

## Resolving Incorrect `provider_type` on Publish: Ensuring Trainees are Created on Register

**Steps to Take:**
1. **Correct the `provider_type` on Publish**
    - Once the provider type is corrected, the Apply applications will be imported, and new trainees will be created.
2. **Identify the `apply_id` on Register**
    - Retrieve the `apply_id` from the `ApplyApplication` table using the following query:


      ```ruby
      application_choice_ids = ApplyApplication.where(accredited_body_code: "2N2", recruitment_cycle_year: 2024, state: :non_importable_hei).pluck(:apply_id)
      ```

3. **Touch All Relevant `ApplicationChoice` Entries on Apply**

    - Touch the relevant `ApplicationChoice` records so that when Register calls the API endpoint with the `changed_since` parameter it will return the applications again:

      ```ruby
      ApplicationChoice.where(id: application_choice_ids).touch_all
      ```

4. **Delete Related `ApplyApplication` Entries on Register**

    - Remove the associated `ApplyApplication` records from the Register:

      ```ruby
      ApplyApplication.where(apply_id: application_choice_ids).delete_all
      ```

5. **Initiate Sidekiq Jobs on Register**
    - Trigger the following Sidekiq jobs to complete the process:
      - `import_applications_from_apply`
      - `create_trainees_from_apply`

Note: This process will import a fresh copy of the applicants’ details and use them to create new records. This ensures that the system realigns with its normal mode of operation, correcting any issues caused by previously imported, potentially stale data.

## Lead partners
### Converting a provider into lead partner

If a provider loses accreditation and needs to be converted into a lead partner, do the following

- Find the ids of all providers that need to be converted
- run the following task including the apostrophes

```
bundle exec rails 'copy_providers_to_lead_partners:copy[<provider ids separated by spaces>, <provider type, eg hei or scitt>]'
```

This task should create the new lead partner and associate the providers’ users with the new lead partner record.


### Creating a lead partner from a school
Ensure that the schools data are up to date see docs/setup-development.md

There is UI that the support agent that can use, so no need for a dev.


1. Find the school in question, https://www.register-trainee-teachers.service.gov.uk/system-admin/schools
2. Change `Is a lead partner? ` from `No` to `Yes`
3. Confirm it
4. Verify it, https://www.register-trainee-teachers.service.gov.uk/system-admin/lead-partners

### Adding a previous trainee for a former accredited provider


Given a lead partner and the former accredited provider is the same.
```ruby

lead_partner = LeadPartner.find(1363)

lead_partner.name == lead_partner.provider.name && lead_partner.provider.accredited? == false

trainee = Trainee.new(provider: lead_partner.provider, state: :draft)
```

Create a `draft` trainee for `lead_partner.provider` and ask the support agent to liaise with the provider to ensure that the details are correct, and the dates are correct.

May need overseeing from `draft` to `awarded`.
